6-8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Phil
And I'm Beth
A list is a collection of items with a single item written on each line and they're everywhere
Shopping lists to do lists even bucket lists. A list of all the things a person would like to do before they die
In fact, there's an episode of 6-minute English all about them.
Imagine you're at the supermarket and find someone's shopping list. This happens a lot to Joe Nolan, a linguistics researcher, whose new book explores our love of lists.
Here's Joe reading her shopping list on BBC Radio 4 program Word of mouth.
I only list the first four items, but the list read
And Narnas, I.I.P.K.
Shrooms
Narnas, I.I.P.K. Shrooms
Can you work out what Joe was buying at the supermarket fill?
Okay, well, I'm going to guess that Narnas are bananas and shrooms. They've got to be mushrooms, right?
Okay, but what about I.I. and P.K.K.
What could they mean?
Well, here's Joe's explanation to Michael Rosen, presenter of BBC Radio 4's Word of mouth.
And let's just come back to Puk. I mean, were you instructing yourself to be sick in the supermarket?
I just a bit lost it.
No, it's slightly grotesque. My husband doesn't like Pukumber.
Any abbreviation for Pukumber would be Puk. So he is always referred to it as Puk.
Aha! Cucumbers make Joe and his husband Puk. A slang word for vomit.
And Puk rhymes with Cuk. So it's a way of reminding her to buy cucumbers.
Wow, sometimes lists are like secret codes.
In this episode, we'll find out why people love lists.
And learn some useful new words and phrases.
And remember, you'll find another list of all the vocabulary used on our website.
BBCLearningEnglish.com.
But first, a question for you, Beth.
According to the list on the Internet Movie Database website,
which movie has made the most money ever.
Is it a, Titanic?
B, Avengers Endgame?
Or C, Avatar?
I think it might be Avatar, although that might have been the most expensive to make.
I'm not sure.
Okay, well, we'll find out at the end of the program.
Popular songs are full of lists.
And one of the most famous is my favourite things.
Song by Judy Andrews in the film, The Sound of Music.
The song lists all her favourite things from rain drops on roses to whiskers on kittens.
Here, Joe Nolan and Michael Rose and discussed the song on BBC Radio 4 program, Word of Mouth.
I feel like you get a lot of big burn for your back in that song.
Maybe it's the positivity, it's a bit saccharine, maybe that's also part of the issue.
The listing courage is you to think really efficiently and economically.
So I think you don't waste a lot of time and effort making a nice sentence or using long words.
You just get to the number of things quite quickly.
The song's list of favourite things is long.
And Joe says you get a big bang for your buck.
An idiom meaning that you gain a lot in return for the money or effort you spend on something,
but not everyone likes the song.
Some call it saccharine, an adjective meaning excessively sweet, sentimental or insincere.
Lists often abbreviate the items they contain.
So you get to the number of things quickly.
The number of something means the most important or essential point about it.
Lists can be useful as well.
Here's Joe Nolan giving an example of a useful list to BBC Radio 4's Word of Mouth.
I find a mind who makes pros and cons lists.
Find that it really helps her resolve a situation.
She halves her page, pros, cons and she's set by the end of it.
She knows what she's doing.
Lists help us make decisions by writing down all the pros and cons of a situation.
The pros and cons is another way of saying the advantages and disadvantages of something,
especially when you're trying to choose between them.
The more you think about it, the more you see lists everywhere in menus and bank statements,
for example, and therapists even recommend listing all the good things in your life to feel happier.
Not bad for a few words on a scrap of paper.
Okay, it's time to reveal the answer to my question.
Beth, I asked you which movie had made the most money ever.
And you said, Avertar, and now according to the Internet Movie database, that's exactly right.
Yay!
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned, starting with Bucket List.
All the things you would like to do before you die.
Luke is slang for vomit or sick.
If something gives bang for your buck, you gain a lot of extra value in return for the money or effort you put into it.
If you call something saccharine, you criticize it for being too sweet or sentimental.
The number of a problem or situation is the most important or essential thing about it.
And finally, something's pros and cons are its advantages and disadvantages.
Once again, our six minutes are up, but remember, you'll find a quiz and worksheet for this episode over on our website,
BBCLanningEnglish.com.
Goodbye for now.
Bye!